+++
title = "Core Architecture"
weight = 2
+++

{{% notice info %}}

This document is *a work in progress*. It has been published publicly to help
reviewers access the document. Some information is missing or incomplete.

{{% /notice %}}

The architecture of the Interlibr platform is inspired by several recent trends
in [cloud-native](https://www.cncf.io/about/faq/) platform design.

The deployment model aims to provide support to applications via a [serverless
model](https://github.com/cncf/wg-serverless/tree/master/whitepapers/serverless-overview). Developers
who use Interlibr to implement their applications should not have to be
concerned about _how_ the platform is deployed. They should be able to integrate
with it _as-a-Service_.

The interaction model is _event-based_, inspired by
[CQRS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commandâ€“query_separation). The ability to
_motivate change_ within the platform is kept distinct from _access to stored
information_. Any changes that do occur are delivered to integrated applications
as events that indicate changes to state.

Originally, the core technical framework used by the platform was
[SMACK](mesosphere.com/blog/smack-stack-new-lamp-stack/). As the development
team has matured, we have moved away from some elements of this
framework. Kubernetes has become the defacto orchestration model for
cloud-native applications, rather than Mesos. In earlier phases of development,
Spark was unnecessarily expensive to deploy for minimal benefit. Therefore, both
technologies have been eliminated from the current architecture. The platform
still uses Kafka for processing queues, Cassandra for storage of tabular data
and Akka as the primary async processing foundation.

# Structure

![Core Architecture Diagram](/images/core.architecture.svg)

The Interlibr platform is designed according to a _kernel-shell model_. A
central compute _kernel_ is surrounding by a _shell_ or _constellation of
services_ that control access to the services provided by the _kernel_. The
_kernel_ merely interprets [Xalgo](../language/xalgo) rules. The outer services
in the shell add additional functionality to the platform that would be required
by client applications. Communication between the shell and the kernel is via
_message queues_ that have additional compute capabilities (Kafka, in this
case).

The advantage of this design is that the outer services are strongly decoupled
from the central _kernel_. This allows us to experiment with different
implementations. Considering that the _kernel_ merely implements an
[interpreter](../language/interpreter) of the language, this also allows a
_kernel implementation_ to be validated outside of the _service constellation_.

# Kernel

## Tables

## Jobs

[network of jobs]

# Shell

## Submissions

## Rules

## Queries

## Revisions


